in this video I'd like to start adapting
support vector machines in order to
develop complex nonlinear classifiers
the main technique for doing that is
something called kernels let's see what
these kernels are and how to use them if
you have a training set that looks like
this
and you want to find a nonlinear
decision boundary to distinguish the
positive negative examples maybe a
boundary that looks like that one way to
do so is to come up with a set of
complex polynomial features right so a
set of features that looks like this so
that you end up with a hypothesis X that
predicts 1 if you know that what theta 0
plus theta 1 X 1 plus dot dot dot
all those polynomial features is greater
than 0 and predict 0 otherwise
and another way of writing this to
introduce a little bit of new notation
that I'll use later is that we can think
about hypotheses as computing a decision
boundary using this so theta 0 plus
theta 1 f1 plus theta 2 f2 plus theta 3
f3 plus and so on where I'm going to use
this new notation F 1 F 2 F 3 and so on
to denote these new sort of features I'm
computing so F 1 is just equal to X 1 F
2 is equal to X 2 F 3 is equal to this
thing here so X 1 X 2 F 4 is equal to
x1 squared at 5 is equal to x2 squared
and so on and we seen previously that
coming up with these high order
polynomials is one way to come up with
lots more features but the question is
is there a different choice of features
or is a better choice of features than
these high order polynomials because you
know it's not clear that these higher
order polynomials is what we want and
when we talked about computer vision
talked about when the input is an image
with lots of pixels we also saw how
using high order polynomials becomes
very computationally expensive because a
lot of these higher order polynomial
terms so it's very different or a better
choice of the features that we can use
to plug into this sort of hypothesis
flip so here's one idea for how to
define a new features f1 f2 f3 in on
this slide I'm going to define only
three new features but for real problems
we're going to define much larger number
but here's what I'm going to do in this
space of features x1 x2 and I'm going to
leave x0 all of this the Interceptor x0
but then this space x1 x2 I'm going to
just you know manually pick a few points
so we'll call this point l1 I'm going to
pick a different point let's call that
l2 and let's pick a third one we call
this one l3
and for now let's just say that I'm
going to choose these 3 points of
manually and we're going to call these
three points land now so that map one
two three what I'm going to do is define
my new features as follows given an
example X let me define my first feature
f1 to be some measure of the similarity
the t my training example X and my first
landmark and the specific formula I'm
going to use to measure similarity is
going to be this is e to the minus the
length of X minus l1 squared divided by
2 Sigma squared so depending on whether
or not you watched your previous
optional video this this notation
you know this notation right this is the
length of the vector W and so this thing
here this X minus l1 this is actually
just the Euclidean distance
well squared is the Euclidean distance
between the point X and the landmark l1
say more about this later but that's my
first feature and my second feature f2
is going to be you know similarity
function that measures how similar X is
to L 2 and the gain is going to be
defined as the following function so
it's e to the minus of the square of the
Euclidean distance between X and the
second landmark that's why that
numerator is and then divided by 2 6
squared and similarly f3 is you know
similarity well between X and L 3 which
is equal to again similar formula and
what this similarity function is the
mathematical term for this is that this
is going to be a kernel function and the
specific kernel that I'm using here this
is actually called a Gaussian kernel and
so this formula this particular choice
of similarity function is called a
Gaussian kernel but the way the
terminology goes is that you know in the
abstract these different similarity
functions are called kernels and we can
have different similarity functions and
the specific example I'm giving here is
called the Gaussian kernel we'll see
other examples of other kernels but for
now just think of these as similarity
functions and so instead of writing
similarity between X and L sometimes we
also write this as a kernel denoted you
know lowercase K between X and one of my
lab mouse
all right so let's see what these
kernels actually do and why why these
sorts of similarity functions why these
e to the salon expressions might make
sense so let's take my first landmark my
landmark l1 which is one of those points
like I chose on my figures now so the
similarity of the kernel between X and
l1 is given by this expression just to
make sure you know we're on the same
page about what the numerator term is
the numerator can also be written as a
sum from J equals 1 to N of sort of the
distance that is the component-wise
distance between the vector X and the
vector L and again for this for the
purpose of these slides on the ignoring
x0 so just ignoring the intercept term
x0 which is always equal to 1
so you know this is how you compute the
kernel or the similarity between X and a
landmark so let's see what this function
does suppose X is close to one of the
landmarks then this Euclidean distance
formula in the numerator will be close
to zero right that that is a this term
here the distance or the squared
distance between X and O be close to
zero and so f1 this simple feature will
be approximately e to the minus zero in
the numerator squared over 2 Sigma
squared so then e to the 0 e to the
minus 0 e to the 0 is in equals to 1
right and I put the approximation symbol
here because you know the distance may
not be exactly 0 but if X is close to
landmark this this term will be close to
0 and so f1 will be close to 1
conversely if X is far from l1 then this
first feature x1 f1 will be e to the
minus of some large number squared
divided by 2 Sigma squared and e to the
minus of a large number is going to be
close to 0
so what these features do is they
measure how similar X is from one of
your land miles and the feature F is
going to be close to one wonder when X
is close your landmark and it's going to
be zero or close to zero when X is far
from your landlord and each of these
landmarks on the previous slide I drew
three landmarks l1 l2 l3 each of these
landmarks defines a new feature f1 f2
ff3 that is given a training example X
we can now compute three new features f1
f2 f3 um given you know the three
landmarks that I wrote out just now but
first let's look at this exponentiation
function let's look at the similarity
function and plotted in figures and just
you know understand better what this
really looks like for this example let's
say I have two features x1 and x2 and
let's say my first landmark l1 is at a
location 3 5 so and so let's say I set
Sigma squared equals 1/4 now if I plot
what this feature looks like what I get
is this figure so the vertical axis the
height of the surface is the value of f1
and down here on the horizontal axis are
if I have some training example and
that's x1 and x2 you know given a
certain training example of the training
example here for a certain value of x1
x2 or the height above the surface shows
the corresponding value of f1 and down
below is the same figure shown using a
contour plot with x1 on horizontal axis
x2 and horizontal axis and so this this
figure on the bottom is just a contour
plot of this 3d surface you notice that
when X is equal to 3/5 exactly then here
f1 takes on the value 1 because that's
at this maximum
and X moves up and as X moves away as X
goes further away then this feature
takes on values that are close to zero
and so this is really a feature f1
measures you know how close X is to the
first landmark and it varies between 0 1
depending on how close X is to the first
landmark l1 now the other thing I want
to do on this slide is show the effects
of varying this parameter Sigma squared
so Sigma squared is a parameter of the
Gaussian kernel and as you vary it you
get slightly different effects let's set
Sigma squared to be equal to 0.5 and see
what we get reset Sigma squared to 0.5
what you find is that the kernel looks
similar except that the width of this
bump becomes narrower the contours
shrink a bit too so if Sigma squared
equals 0.5 then as you start from you
know x equals 3/5 and s you move away
then the feature f1 Falls to 0 much more
rapidly and conversely if you were to
increase Sigma squared so here I've set
Sigma square equals 3 in that case as I
move away from you know L so this point
here is really L right as L 1 is at
location 3 5 shown up here and if Sigma
squared is large then as you move away
from the from l1 the feed the value of
the feature falls away much more slowly
so given this definition of the features
let's see what sorts of hypotheses we
can learn given the training example X
we're going to compute these features f1
f2 f3 and our hypothesis is going to
predict 1 when theta 0 plus theta 1 f1
plus a 2 f2 and so on is greater than or
equal to 0 for this particular example
let's say that I've already run a
learning algorithm and let's say that
you know somehow I ended up with these
values of the parameters so theta 0
equals minus 0.5 theta 1 equals 1 theta
2 equals 1 and theta 3 equals 0 and what
I want to do is consider what happens if
we have a training example that takes
that has a location at this magenta dot
right where I just drew this dot over
here so let's say I have a training
example X what will my hypothesis with a
well if I look at this formula because
my training example X is close to l1 we
have that f1 is going to be close to 1
but because my training example X is far
from l2 and l3 I'll have that you know
f2 will be close to 0 and f3 will be
close to 0 so if I look at that formula
I have theta 0 plus theta 1 times 1 plus
theta 2 times some value not exactly
zero but let's say close to zero then
plus theta 3 times something close to
zero and this is going to be equal to
you're plugging in these values now so
that gives minus 0.5 plus 1 times 1
which is 1 and so on which is equal to
0.5 mistreating equals 0 so at this
point we're going to predict
why equals 1 because that's greater than
equal to 0 now let's take a different
point now let's say I take a different
point I'm going to draw this one in a
different color in cyan say for a point
out there if that were my training
example X then if you make a similar
computation you find that f1 f2 f3 are
all going to be close to 0 and so you
have theta 0 plus theta 1 f1 plus so on
and this will be about equal to minus
0.5 because I guess theta 0 is minus 0.5
and in the f1 f2 f3 are 0 so this will
be minus 0.5 this is less than 0 and so
at this point out there we're going to
predict y equals 0 and if you do this
yourself for a range of different points
you should convince yourself that if you
have a training example that's close to
l2 say then at this point we'll also
predict y equals 1 and in fact what you
end up doing is you know if you look
around this decision about this space
what we'll find is that for points near
l1 and l2 we end up predicting positive
and for points far away from l1 and l2
that is the points far away from these
two landmarks we end up predicting that
the class is equal to zero and so what
we end up doing is that the decision
boundary of this hypothesis will end up
looking something like this where inside
this red district boundary we predict y
equals 1 and outside we predict
while your zero and so this is how with
this definition of the landmarks and of
a kernel function we can learn the
pretty complex nonlinear decision
boundary like what I just drew where we
predict positive when we're close to
either one of the two landmarks that we
predict negative when we're very far
away from any of the landmarks and so
this is a part of the idea of kernels of
and how we use them with a support
vector machine which is that we define
these extra features using landmarks and
similarity functions to learn more
complex nonlinear classifiers so
hopefully that gives you a sense of the
idea of kernels and how we can use it to
define new features for the support
vector machine but they're quite a
couple questions that we haven't
answered yet one is how do we get these
landmarks how do we choose these
landmarks and another is of what other
similarity functions if any can be used
other than the one we talked about
called Gaussian kernel in the next video
we'll give answers to these questions
and put everything together to show how
support vector machines with kernels can
be a powerful way to learn complex
nonlinear functions
you